Israeli activists continue to try
protecting Aid convoys headed for Gaza
from attacks by extremist Jewish
settlers before the war 500 truckloads
of supplies a day sustained gaza's
population due to strict Security checks
and the attacks far fewer trucks now
cross into the territory tww Za Ibrahim
reports from Takia Crossing where
right-wing activists have been
vandalizing egg convoys on route from
Jordan through the West Bank
these Israelis aren't going on a day
trip they're on a mission they want to
make sure that eight for Gaza makes it
there
safely but when they get to the junction
food is already scattered on the ground
we've arrived at the site of an attack
by Israeli extremists on and Aid Convoy
meant for starving civilians in Gaza and
as you can see behind me activists are
now busy trying to save really what can
be saved from that food they're
encouraged by the effect they've
had because we were here and we made the
police come here as well and we encourag
the police to do whatever needed to stop
them we can see that only few of the
boxes were falling down and most of the
thing in the TRU continue to Gaza we've
also seen the police try to come between
the activists and the attackers who even
as the police is standing right next to
them can continue vandalizing the food
as it lays on the pavement they full of
Fate right now and they are acting as if
they don't care that people die from
anger this is not the country we want to
be we are not leaving this checkpoint
till the settlers will leave the area
and we'll make sure that all the trucks
will go and bring food to Gaza the
police officers on site refused to give
us an interview on camera but said that
on that day they arrested at least two
people in connection with the attack
whose aftermath we witnessed a few days
earlier near this checkpoint there was a
violent attack on another eight
Convoy activists there said Israeli
soldiers did nothing to stop the
vandalism extremist settlers have been
waging attacks like these regularly in
Israel a report by the garden newspaper
even suggests that some members of State
security tip off attackers ahead of time
about the location of eight convoys
it was violence like that which inspired
this group of activists to organize
their solidarity guard it's not only the
question of what's going on in Gaza it's
a question of our society and which kind
of a society we are going to be are we
going to be a society that will allow
hunger and um famine and destruction and
death to be celebrated or are we going
to stand against it and to say we are
human we are fighting for our own
Humanity it's infuriating the fact that
that that we need to be here we always
find people that will be
disruptive but I'm a citizen of Israel
I'm also an American citizen um as a
human being why are we not doing more
it's happening in my name and it's for
the government for the police for the
Army to do everything
possible insults come thick and fast
Nazis and Hamas their fellow Israelis
call
them but they continue to try to get the
food onto a truck and back towards Gaza
by the end of the day they told us all
the trucks had gone through with little
damage to them a
victory and Aya joins us now from
Jerusalem how common have these attacks
on eight convoys become
Aya they've become very common since uh
April we've been seeing on social media
on an almost daily basis videos of uh
Israeli extremists uh associated with
the settler Community intercepting these
eight convoys and uh destroying them
we've also uh heard reports of truck
drivers uh being assaulted even if
they're not carrying Aid at all so that
gives you a sense of the chaos uh that
is uh around the story right now if the
you know particular settler groups
suspect that a truck is carrying Aid uh
what they usually do is that they put a
roadblock with rocks and they start
attacking uh the driver uh if he is
Palestinian looking if they suspect that
he's carrying uh Aid he's often sort of
by himself in that situation um and
that's really uh you know the the the
frequency of these attacks and the
randomness of it is as we mentioned what
inspired this group to start organizing
and what they're saying is is that their
modus appara is to really try and stand
between the aid and the attackers and
also with their presence uh because they
make their presence very well known to
the police try to encourage and force
the police to come and um according to
them do their job and chaos is a good
way of describing the situation I mean
what about protecting these truck
drivers as well as protecting the aid
what what is the police doing what are
what's the Israeli military actually
doing so when we were uh there uh
present the police was present uh and as
you as we tried to show in the report
they sort of tried to keep the two
groups separate from each others but
what activists have been saying is that
previously and certainly uh this claim
is corroborated by the you know the
visual uh documentation of these attacks
the police has not uh been uh uh present
um and has in some cases just stood by
and watched these attacks that's
according to I witness uh accounts uh by
activists and um I just want to you know
paint a bigger picture about the
situation with the police in Israel
right now for our viewers who may not be
famili familiar uh the police is of
course under the supervision of the
national security minister the far-right
national security minister itamar bavier
and um we have seen him in the past
couple of days uh sort of implicitly
support openly support uh these uh
attacker saying that he understands
their anger he understands their
frustration um he says that he wants to
see them block it but that they
shouldn't be burning or attacking
drivers so there is some support coming
from the man who really controls the
police and he has also boasted about
being a member of the security cabinet
who's actually voted against Israel
facilitating Aid uh uh to Gaza and there
are a lot of accusations coming from the
activist Community saying that basically
because of this roric coming from
political leaders ership namely the
national security minister police isn't
really motivated to do their job and in
fact the national security minister has
spoken out against the police providing
so many resources to protect the aing
that he doesn't really understand why so
much police is there uh to protect the
aid going to Gaza and there's been
widespread condemnation of these attacks
of course from Germany included how's
the Israeli government reacting to
that well if touched a little bit on
what the National Security uh Minister
has been saying so from there you can
definitely see that there's a a he's
he's not he's not condemning the
violence openly but there's certainly an
understanding for what uh the attackers
are doing um but you're absolutely
correct we're now in a moment where
Israel is getting a lot of pressure from
the International Community on many
fronts when it comes to this war Germany
has condemned a these attacks the United
States Israel's biggest Ally has
condemned these attacks as well but
we're also hearing a lot of condemnation
from Jordan because remember um a lot of
this Aid that's coming through the West
Bank is originating in Jordan and that's
another that's Israel's immediate
neighbor an Arab country with one of the
oldest peace treaties with Israel now
also speaking out about this and so it
gives you a sense of the level of
concern that this you know domestic
issue we could called it that is also
resonating well outside of Israel's
borders at a difficult time for the
country and its political leadership in
this war context there from a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem thank you